# middbike
Potential bikeshare program in Middlebury

# Simulation

To simulate a bikeshare program in Middlebury, we use Python to write a simple program to calculate user satisfaction. The system has 10 bike hubs, with roads connecting each pair of them. We use an 10-node, complete, directed graph to represent the system. Each node represents a hub. Between each pair of hubs is a pair of edges, each representing the time it takes to travel in one of the two directions (ex., between nodes a and b, an edge can be labeled 12 and points from a to b because it takes 12 minutes to travel from a to b; the other edge is labeled 20 because it takes longer to travel from b back to a). Based on the Poisson distribution, we provide a 24-element array "distribution" for each hub, each element representing the number of bike rentals happening in the past hour of the day (thus 24 elements). We also provide a 10-element array "possibilities" for each hub, each element representing the possibility that a user travels to one of the 10 hubs. So for example, if we're at hub a, and the possibility that a user rents a bike there to travel to location b is 20%, the first element of the "possibilities" array for location a should be 0.2. The possibility that a user travels to the original hub should always be 0. Assume, for the simplicity of discussion, bike rentals only happen at exact hours (ex., 2:00, 3:00, etc.), in the main function of this simulation algorithm, we calculate the bike distribution of our system at the next exact hour (i.e., how many bikes are free-floating in the system, how many bikes at each hub). We then calculate the sum of the number of times a user can't find an available bike at a hub (i.e., the number of remaining bikes at the hub is 0 at a given hour). We also calculate the sum of the number of times a user can't find a spot to park their bike (i.e., when a user arrives at a given hub, the number of bikes there is 10 or more). The algorithm returns these two numbers for each hour of the day.

# TODO: add Poisson distribution, probabilities array for each hub, and travel times
